All right.
So next up let's work on getting that delete functionality to work.
So there's something we can click on it to do a button or just a little x that will then delete it not
only from the API but also from the DOM.
And it's very similar to how we did the Create where we have some code that does the API called written
in the last component because it manages to do state and it's triggered by some thing in a child's component.
In this case it will be on to do item and the route itself.
It's a delete request we need to send to slash API slash to use slash a particular ID.
So let's start off by asking about this actually in a different order.
Let's define a delete to do function here a method that takes in an ID.
That idea is the idea of the Do we want to delete.
So we're kind of writing this in the opposite way where we write the API call first and then we trigger
it later.
We're just going to start by writing it.
It's going to be very similar just to fetch again.
The only difference.
Well one of the only differences is that you are l because we now need to construct a new you or else
so let's call it Konst delete.
You are all equals.
API you are L plus slash.
Next is C..
I put the slash in here.
Not yet.
Let's put this slash up here.
And then down here I'll just be able to do plus
ID that we're passing it.
So this will construct you around like a slash API slash traduce slash 6:7 ABC whatever the ideas.
OK then what I'm going to start doing is actually copying the entire fetch from AD to do so you don't
have to watch me type that whole thing and just add it.
So we're going to fetch delete you Arel instead method is now going to be a delete and get rid of the
headers and the body because we're not sending any information along.
We're just making into that request.
Then we'll keep the error checking the same.
Technically there's no response that we should expect back.
So we don't have to return response Jason.
The only time there would be a response dodgiest on this if there's an error because the way the API
works.
So we shouldn't get anything back.
But even if we do it doesn't really matter because all we're going to do is afterwards let's just change
this.
We're going to set state to remove the to do that we just tried to remove.
So we have the idea remember that's coming in here and rather than setting state like this we're going
to first filter out.
So let's just do to do as equals this that state to do so the current to use filter.
And then what we're going to try and do is to do
that underscore ID is not equal to the ID to basically get rid of the one that were trying to delete
and then we're going to reassign States so this starts to set state and we'll just say that to dues
is equal to dues which is kind of confusing but remember we're just taking you out of office and reciting
into it to use variable and then we're updating to do as part of the state to equal that new variable
which is everything that was there minus the one we tried to delete.
OK.
So we have this defined.
Hopefully there's no errors but we'll know in a moment because right now we're not ever calling this.
So what we want to do is pass this on down to each individual to do item.
So here's where we're creating the two items.
So we're actually going to pass something in here.
We're going to have an on delete equals this dot delete to do and we need to bind it.
The problem is we can't do it here.
Where's that going forever.
Because we also need to pass in some data that's particular to each individual to do item.
So we're going to bind it down here to do it to do that find this and then our second argument is going
to be T Dot underscore.
So for each to do item number remapping over tea refers to the actual data coming from the API or in
the state are going to take that and take the ID and pass that in.
So we're finding this and then the second argument will actually when this function is called we'll
pass this data as an argument.
So then up here we'll have an ID to work with.
OK.
So we're almost there but we're still never calling this in the to do item.
So down and to do item first thing I'm going to do is pull this out as well.
We'll just call it on delete and then we need to use and on quick to call it and I'm going to restructure
my code here just a tiny little bit because what's going to happen is we're going to have an undelete
and an on toggle two different things where you click on maybe an X or a button you want to delete that
to do.
But if you click anywhere else we want to update the status.
Right so if I click here I don't want to delete it but if I click on an X over here or a delete button
I do so I'm going to add two components.
Excuse me are two components two parts to this I'm just going to wrap them in a span.
So we have our ally after name just a span here.
We could do a button as well but I'm going to start and I'll just put an X with a space on either side
and this span when we click it so it will do an on click equals on the lead and that should be it.
So when we click that span with the X we're calling on the lead which itself has passed in here and
we don't have to provide the ID and to do item we're doing it here.
And that in turn calls delete to do.
OK let's see what happens.
Let's try and delete one of these duplicates.
Let's open up the network tab as well so we can see what happens.
So it looks like it worked.
Here's the request that was sent I believe.
No that was the first request.
Here's the one that was sent.
The Delete request can see you sent to slash AP I-Slash to do slash that ID and it's no longer here.
Refresh the page it's gone.
Great.
So I click anywhere else though nothing happens and that's good.
We only want it on this X. again we'll worry about styling later.
But this is fine for now.
Tyler Moore looks good.
Let's also try it when we create one and just make sure it also works that we can delete it.
And I'm just refreshing just to make sure things are persisting.
How they should in the database.
Everything looks good.
OK.
Before I forget let's actually update our to do form so it doesn't start as EHLO ha.
Let's make the initial input value just an empty string.
And we have our delete working.
You can see again the bulk of the logic here is just the fetch the API call itself.
OK.
So next we're going to do very very similar thing but working on toggling or updating the status the
completed status.
So it would basically follow the same pattern except rather than delete request.
We're going to send a put request.